[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>REGINA MEREDITH: I think
it's clear to most of us
that we have a man crisis on
our hands in the Western world.
In short, roles are
changing quickly,
with more women than men
attending and graduating
from college.
Women have learned to
adapt and now thrive
in the competitive workforce.
So what's happened
to all the men?
What is their role now?
Zeus Yiamouyiannis is
here with us today to dive
into the pervasive problem
of lost men and boys
and how to develop a
new masculinity within.
Or maybe it's not
fair to say "lost."
But I think it is fair
to say "challenged."
>>ZEUS YIAMOUYIANNIS: Mm-hmm.
Definitely.
>>REGINA: And I have to
say-- because people will
say, what was his name again?
Zeus?
That's your real name.
It's not your Sedona name.
>>YIAMOUYIANNIS: Right.
>>REGINA: Your brother's Apollo.
Your sister's Athena.
And I know how to
pronounce your name
because you're my sweetie pie.
And I just want to say
that in full disclosure.
[LAUGHS]
You wrote a wonderful book
called "The Spiritually
Confident Man."
And we've finally been able
to have you on the show.
And your own journey has been a
reflection of what men at large
are going through.
You're not able to
work off the old way
and the patriarchal
model is not able to cave
into the feminine ways, per se.
And a lot of it for you started
with your grandpa Yemenis,
before they change your family
name to Yiamouyiannis, right?
>>YIAMOUYIANNIS: Well, they
changed it at Ellis Island
to Yemenis.
We changed it back.
>>REGINA: You changed it
back to Yiamouyiannis.
>>YIAMOUYIANNIS:
Yiamouyiannis, yeah.
>>REGINA: And your grandmother,
who was an amazing woman--
these are both immigrants.
Well, let's just start
with your family's story
and how that trickled
down to your dad,
how your dad trickle down
and affected all of you,
and then what you-- now the
story picks up from there.
>>YIAMOUYIANNIS: Yeah.
So my grandpa was
kind of a man's man.
One time, I joked with
him about fencing,
because I was doing
varsity fencing
in college at Ohio State.
And I joked about
doing a duel with him.
And he said, well, we'd
have to fight to the death
or something like that.
And he was dead serious.
>>REGINA: [LAUGHS] Grandpa.
>>YIAMOUYIANNIS: I'm
like, Grandpa, whoa.
But I think what
he kind of showed
was this notion of
this sort of machismo,
this notion of
masculinity, which is,
I'm not going to take anything.
It's hard.
The man is out there to protect,
to be a bit of a warrior,
and to take things
very seriously.
>>REGINA: Well, he
was an immigrant.
>>YIAMOUYIANNIS: He
>>REGINA: From Greece.
Lesbos, right?
>>YIAMOUYIANNIS: Yep, mm-hmm.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
And he was in the
restaurant industry.
So he was trying to make his
way as an immigrant in America
to begin with.
So he has a lot to prove.
Plus he's Greek.
>>YIAMOUYIANNIS: And he
happened to have an affair with
my grandma--
>>REGINA: Who was married
to another Greek man.
>>YIAMOUYIANNIS: Yeah.
And he was about 14
years her junior.
And my grandma was
something special.
She would have been
cent-to-million CEO
if she was born in a
somewhat later time.
She came over with nothing.
She didn't even
know the language.
And by the time she
was in her early 20's,
from having nothing, she
owned an apartment complex
and a restaurant.
And that's where
my grandpa met her.
>>REGINA: Hooked
up with her, yeah.
>>YIAMOUYIANNIS: Yes.
So it didn't keep
her from wanting
that vibrant Greek spirit.
And the two of them
then got together.
But it was always a contention
in their relationship,
all the way to the end.
My grandma died when
she was about 90,
my grandpa when
he was in his 80s.
And I looked at
that living style.
>>REGINA: But Joan
did battle a lot.
Because she was a strong
woman in the time when
this strong man--
who was wounded by life also,
and started drinking alcohol
a bit too to contend with life.
>>REGINA: But there
was a great story
that he told me-- this was
when my grandma had died,
and there was a funeral.
We were down there--
about him serving as a
cook during World War
II in the army, and how
there were starving families.
This is stateside.
This is back in
the United States.
They had some weird practices
about disposing of food.
And he would save stuff that
would have been thrown out
for these starving families.
And I really saw that
tender side of him.
And behind the machismo,
behind the threats
of dueling to the
death, I think it's
things like that got me
thinking about this sort
of twofold nature of man--
what we're expected to be
and what we kind of
are underneath that.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
And your dad is a
wonderful example.
A lot of people in our
audience would really
appreciate who your dad was.
Because he was one of the
very first real warriors
as a scientist in the
subject of fluoridated water.
>>YIAMOUYIANNIS: Exactly.
>>REGINA: And tell us a little
bit about that part of his life
first so people can understand.
This a very respectable,
intelligent man.
>>YIAMOUYIANNIS: Right.
No, he was a kind of--
I wouldn't say renegade, but
certainly he was definitely
pushing the boundaries.
But he was very well
grounded in science.
And he did
epidemiological studies,
which are these basic
statistical studies, about
cancer rates and fluoride.
And he found, along
with Dr. Dean Burke,
a very strong
connection between it,
that flouride is causing
many, many deaths per year.
And again, it's more chronic,
so it's harder to detect.
But it can pick it
up in the statistics.
>>REGINA: Well, and he was hired
by which company to do this?
>>YIAMOUYIANNIS: Chemical
Abstracts is where he was.
And that's when we
moved to central Ohio,
where I grew up on a farm.
But again, he was going
against the establishment.
So they weren't real
happy about that.
And then he began to
form his own organization
and basically to
become his own company.
>>REGINA: Yeah, they
were not expecting
him to come out on the side
of, this stuff causes cancer,
statistically.
>>YIAMOUYIANNIS: Right.
And because he was
a biochemist, he
understood the biochemical
properties of it.
So he was very well-grounded.
And he started the Safe Water
Foundation and the National
Health Action Committee.
And we grew up in that.
We grew up on an organic farm
with that kind of activism
and that kind of
anti-establishment--
and it wasn't conspiratorial.
It was--
>>REGINA: Fact.
>>YIAMOUYIANNIS:
--based in hard science.
And it was based in basically
moral courage, social courage
to fight for what
you believe is right,
to fight for people's
health, to help
make people aware about things.
>>REGINA: And so
he was a warrior.
And he was out there
selling books out
of the trunk of his car,
but, like, 35,000 of them.
>>YIAMOUYIANNIS: Right.
>>REGINA: I mean, he was
really successful in his time.
>>YIAMOUYIANNIS: Yeah, his book
"Flouride, the Aging Factor"
sold 35,000 copies before
the internet of that book.
>>REGINA: Right.
I mean, that's amazing.
>>YIAMOUYIANNIS: Yeah.
>>REGINA: Was he self-published?
>>YIAMOUYIANNIS: He was.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
So I mean, that just
shows what passion can do.
And so he's out
there doing that.
But at the same time, he
was the only offspring
from your grandparents who had
this contentious relationship.
So on one hand, he
was totally spoiled,
and the other came down
like a hammer on him.
So as a man, he's getting
a lot of mixed signals
that he passed on
to your family.
He's gone now.
But he passed on to your
family this incredible conflict
and confusion, for the men
and the women, the boys
and the girls.
And so let's talk a
little bit about that.
He was a highly conflicted
individual on certain levels--
a health nut, teaching us about
this and then drinking Coke--
or whatever his beverage was--
nonstop.
>>YIAMOUYIANNIS: Right.
He drank soft drinks.
But he did get rid
of that after a time.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>YIAMOUYIANNIS: But he
forbade us to drink them.
But he was drinking them.
And you see those kind
of contradictions a lot
in masculinity today,
the desire to continue
with some of the
entitlement and some
of the basis for self-worth that
was given over from the past,
a lot of it not based
on something that
was equal or fair or merited,
but a desire in some sense
to break out of the prison
that same kind of privilege
and entitlement provides.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
And so he passes this on to you.
Because now, your dad's
in competition with you,
as the eldest son in the family.
And you're the one that he
comes down on like a hammer.
>>YIAMOUYIANNIS:
And so to me, it
was always about finding
a way to see another not
just person to person, like me
versus my dad in competition.
I was always searching for
a way to say, hey, wait,
there's a way to
look at this where
we can be cooperative
or collaborate on this.
And that would
come out sometimes
when we were doing
wood together.
I'd say, Dad, don't
put the wedge there.
That's not going to work.
It's going to just get
buried in that piece,
and it's going to get stuck,
because it's going right
toward a knot.
And he would try
to prove me wrong,
and then end up
proving me right.
But I wasn't trying to
use it as a competition.
I think that was partly what
this book is based upon.
How is it that men
can be co-creative,
not only with each other,
but also with women?
And that is, I
mean, how can I take
his talent, his way of looking
at it, work together with mine,
and come up with
something, a third way that
is, in some sense, taking
the best of both worlds,
and that doesn't deny
my masculinity, that
doesn't deny my talent
or my perspective,
but at the same time,
it broadens that,
deepens that by
engaging another person.
>>REGINA: Because men tend to
be more loners and distinct
in what they choose as their
mark in life and their path.
And they don't tend to turn
to others too much when
there are issues and so forth.
They're taking more
of an alone path.
And now, I think,
historically, globally, we're
growing into a time of
collaboration and community.
And that old way--
the old warrior
way-- isn't working.
>>YIAMOUYIANNIS: Not the
solitary warrior way.
>>REGINA: The solitary, yeah.
>>YIAMOUYIANNIS: We have to
transform the "warrior-ness"
into one of interdependence
and collaboration.
>>REGINA: That's the rub.
>>YIAMOUYIANNIS: And we don't
have a lot of background
on that as men.
Women tend to have
a little bit more,
because relationships are
more fundamental to women's
identity.
Relationships in
war and destruction
have been fundamental
to men in sports--
my team against your team.
But the notion of working on
a creative project, especially
one that includes
women, is not something
that we have been
well-prepared to do.
>>REGINA: Well, I can say
from a lifetime of experience
in the media, you can be
sitting there as a woman--
as the only woman in the room--
giving a perfectly viable
solution or option
or creative input,
and you're not listened to.
>>YIAMOUYIANNIS:
That's exactly right.
I can't tell you how many
times I've experimented
and also even pointed
out that I just
raised the exact same
point, almost word for word,
that a woman in our
little conference
or whatever had raised,
and it wasn't taken up.
>>REGINA: But if you said
it, they would hear you.
Did you ever point it
out to the other men
and say, do you know
she just said this?
>>YIAMOUYIANNIS:
Yeah, I would do it.
And this happens in enlightened
environments, like academia.
It's unconscious, it's
entrained, and it's confining,
not just for women.
Because that's the obvious
insult and the obvious making
invisible, that woman
in that situation.
But in a man, it does something
also that's not helpful.
He's basically borrowing
someone else's ideas
and pretending it's his.
It erodes his ability to
think of his own ideas
instead of just owning
other people's ideas.
>>REGINA: It's demeaning
to every party involved--
>>YIAMOUYIANNIS: Exactly.
>>REGINA: --in that
it's ubiquitous.
>>YIAMOUYIANNIS: Exactly.
And this is another thing that
I try to discuss in the book.
And that is so-called
advantages of men, or benefits,
at the expense of another
person always seem
to have greater damages
than the supposed benefits.
For instance, the
feminist analysis
will say men benefit from
having higher pay than a woman,
or benefit from,
like the example you
used, being listened to when the
woman's not being listened to.
But what are the damages
for something like that?
Those are rarely explored.
They're not being
exploited by women, by men,
or by feminists, because
they're concentrating
on a different focus.
But here are some
of the problems.
You're not coming up
with your own ideas.
You are finding pressure.
You're starting to get
this kind of stress
or anxiety around whether or
not you're worth something.
Because you're not actually
being the one producing them.
You're kind of being the one
to shuttle them around and own
them.
And the more and
more you go down
that path, the more
and more the facade
varies from your
actual capabilities.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
Now that's interesting.
Because it brings
to mind something
that I've shared with
you before privately.
And that is, I was talking to
a mutual friend of ours called
Howard years ago,
and I was saying,
god, I just don't know if I can
bring this project to fruition.
I was kind of like,
oh, I hope I'm worthy.
I hope it's good enough.
And he said, let me
tell you something.
And he had told me about a
study of Fortune 500 executives.
And it talked about their--
they were anonymous--
personality traits,
in terms of what
made them successful
and what was your greatest fear.
And the greatest
fear was that they
were afraid of being discovered
for the frauds that they were.
Because they were
actually standing
on so many other
people's shoulders.
And these are the people on
the front of all the magazines
that we tend to herald
in this world, you know?
>>YIAMOUYIANNIS: Right.
And I think that
that's problematic.
I'm hoping, with this more
interdependent way that we're
going forward, that we're
going to be able to understand
that it's not your
position or your status,
whether you're man or
woman in the situation.
It's more about what
you as a spirit,
as a human being with
certain talents and passions,
bring to the table.
And that can include
that warrior passion.
That can include this
animal man passion.
It doesn't have to be
politically correct.
It doesn't have to be overly
constructed or overly produced.
And we'll go through--
>>REGINA: We'll talk about that.
But it has to be authentic.
>>YIAMOUYIANNIS: It
has to be authentic.
>>REGINA: You have to show
up as authentically you.
>>YIAMOUYIANNIS:
Yeah, and you don't
have to make excuses for
being a man in today's world,
I don't believe.
But there are going
to be other ways
to express it, more
powerful ways to express it,
than enjoying another person--
>>REGINA: Including women.
>>YIAMOUYIANNIS:
--including women--
>>REGINA: Right.
>>YIAMOUYIANNIS: --that allow
you to feel it, to share it,
and to build something stronger
together with other people.
And that's, again,
where men have not
been taught very
well how to work it.
They've been taught about
objects, about tasks.
And I still think
there's room for that
when you're doing
work around the house
or you've got a project going.
But when it comes
to relationships,
and when it comes to
projects together,
it doesn't work very well.
>>REGINA: It doesn't.
So we have to bust a
couple of old paradigms,
really, to break through.
And one of them is
thousands-of-years-old
patriarchy.
I mean, there's
evidence when we look
into ancient, ancient
history and lore
that there have been times and
places throughout history where
women have been strong and have
been in power and powerful,
but not the last few thousand
years around this planet.
And so we have these
passed on-- whatever
you want to call
them-- inherited--
cellular genetic memories
of our roles in the world,
or you can say directly
passed through from past life
experience.
But they're pretty set.
And they're deeply subconscious.
So we've got the
patriarchal paradigm.
And then we have the
Industrial Age paradigm,
which really, I think,
just denigrated humanity.
So first of all, before
we go into those,
we need to just discuss
the title of your book.
Because then I want to get
into these two factors.
It's called "The
Spiritually Confident Man."
Now, some people might
look and say, oh, it's
a religious book about men?
What do you mean by
spiritual confidence?
>>YIAMOUYIANNIS: Well, the first
thing is that spirit itself,
in the way that I understand
it, is basically a high degree
of conscious energy--
an energy with a high
degree of consciousness.
It's not simply just faith.
It's not religiously based.
It's really the spark of
life that goes through us.
And to the degree that we
have spiritual confidence,
it's that this energy is
allowed to work in our lives
and come to the forefront
rather than simply be
a luxury or something we
hide in the background.
So that's about stepping
forward and letting
this passion and the
spirit come forward.
And it's going to
have, as spirit
does, a desire to connect
with others, a desire
to be vulnerable, to be
open, to be expressive--
a lot of things
that are oftentimes
associated with femininity.
But there are ways in
which men can do this too.
So the spirituality
is this energy.
It's not about religion.
And confidence is the ability
to bring it into the forefront
and combine it with your
passions and talents,
and be able to have
that as a means
to connect with somebody
else and their spirit
and their energy.
And finally, the man part--
the man part is that there are
distinct ways in which men--
the polarity of masculinity,
the polarity of manhood--
can do that and can contribute.
So the spiritually
confident man is the one
who recognizes that
spiritual energy,
brings it forth,
and then understands
that it is an expression
of me as a man, and not
simply just getting
rid of my manhood
in order to be spiritual.
So those are the ways
that I would lay it out.
>>REGINA: Yeah,
it's interesting.
Because the whole
notion of being
a man is so complex
to begin with.
It is for women too.
When you start going
further and further into it
and you listen to women
talking about men-- oh,
they're just boys.
Ah, he's never going to learn.
You know, there are kind
of demeaning comments
about men behind the scenes.
I mean, that's just how it is
when you get women together.
You know, he's
like a little kid.
He's never going to grow up.
I just had to accept it.
And then you think in
terms of the great writers,
and poets, and
lyricists, and musicians.
Granted, part of it was,
women weren't really allowed
into that arena.
But right down to troubadours,
this really deep kind
of yearning and such, these
were the works of men.
Now that is
extraordinarily vulnerable,
just to lay that
array of feelings out.
We say men never
share their feelings.
Well, look at some of the
classic poems and plays
and love songs.
These were written by men.
So there is this
really deep side
that wants to express
itself, but the average man
doesn't feel can express
itself without losing face
on some level.
>>YIAMOUYIANNIS:
That's largely true.
I think that's changing.
You mentioned lost or
struggling men and boys.
It's like what's happened
early with chatrooms
or early internet.
We're kind of floundering
around, trying
to find our legs, kind
of not looking terribly
intelligent or competent.
And that's OK.
That's part of
confidence too, is
to let yourself look
a bit like a fool,
but continue to allow that
thing to come forward,
that passion to come
forward, confidence
to be able to be a fool, but
not to let yourself just stick
with that right, to
go through that part
where it may look like you're
not as competent or as manly
or having it all together.
And I really admire
men who can do that.
And you look at entrepreneurs
and you look at some others.
Those areas, you're
allowed to do it as a man,
to fail spectacularly.
>>REGINA: Oh, yeah, go
bankrupt three times
and recreate yourself.
>>YIAMOUYIANNIS: Yeah, it's
almost like a badge of honor.
But you look at other areas--
artistic creation,
relationship with women,
relationship with other men--
those are much less developed.
And we need to have more
development in that way.
>>REGINA: OK, so let's overlay
industrialization over that,
and all the inherent kind of
issues that are already there.
>>YIAMOUYIANNIS: Right.
Well, I mean, we had patriarchy
for several thousand years.
I have a whole chapter
of this on my book.
We kind of outline how
that happened religiously,
socially, politically.
And then we hit the
Industrial Age on top of that.
So we had the dominance
of men over women
in terms of decision making
and in terms of owning property
and so forth.
And then we got into an
area in the mid-1800s
in which technology
was starting to emerge.
And the world was
seen as a machine.
And men were being
taught to be machines.
So you'd look at
them, how they were
going to work in
cubicles or factories--
>>REGINA: Assembly lines.
>>YIAMOUYIANNIS: --and
literally becoming a cog
on an assembly line.
And there was being a separation
of labor and segmentation.
A woman's place was now
totally in the home.
Men's place was totally
in the public workspace.
And then there was social things
that would gather around that
too with the segmentation.
So not only were men
and women segmented,
but there was a dehumanizing
work that was being brought
into the situation, in which,
instead of being spiritual,
which has connection,
"organic-ness," expressiveness,
choice, authenticity--
>>REGINA: Creativity.
>>YIAMOUYIANNIS: --creativity,
you are literally
becoming almost an object.
>>REGINA: Part of a machine.
>>YIAMOUYIANNIS: Part
of a machine in order
to produce products to make
very few people, usually, very
wealthy, and the rest of
the people not so much so.
And oftentimes, a lot of elderly
are falling through the cracks,
children were falling
through the cracks,
women were falling through
the cracks in this.
And there wasn't an opportunity
to really express that spirit
or be confident in that spirit.
And oftentimes, because
of the oppressive of that,
men would bring
their problems home,
creating problems at
home between women
and their children as well.
>>REGINA: And including
domestic violence--
>>YIAMOUYIANNIS:
Domestic violence.
>>REGINA: --and even
more subjugation.
And the flip side of this,
throughout the patriarchal age
and through the
Industrial Ages, with men
that were being
suppressed, really,
by the zeitgeist that
had been created by
whomever to begin with--
we can go way back on that one--
it left women really with only
one reliable means of getting
what they wanted out of life.
And that was, by and
large, manipulation.
If you couldn't overtly
come out and say, hey, this
is what I want and this
is how I want to do it,
because no one's going
to listen to you,
you manipulate your
way through it.
And then it created this huge
and denigrating situation
of competition between women.
>>YIAMOUYIANNIS: Exactly.
>>REGINA: Because if your source
of survival as a man, and you
don't have any other
way in the world,
unless you happen to have a
wealthy relative or something,
you really had no
choice, if you wanted
to have any kind of life, but to
manipulate for what you wanted.
And these tendencies are still
very strong in men and women
all over the world today.
>>YIAMOUYIANNIS: It is.
And people think
of them as natural.
They're not.
>>REGINA: No, they're not.
>>YIAMOUYIANNIS: They're
heavily accentuated and adaptive
and made hyper-concentrated
in the industrial era.
We think that these things
happen such a long time.
I believe when I was
in graduate school,
they said that even abortion
within the Catholic church
came in the middle of the
Industrial Revolution.
>>REGINA: Oh, interesting.
>>YIAMOUYIANNIS:
About 1850, 1860,
it became more of
an official policy.
People think that
that's been forever.
But again, you needed people.
You needed people.
>>REGINA: To fill the machinery.
>>YIAMOUYIANNIS: To fill the
machinery, to keep breathing,
or to get people into churches
or get people into factories.
And what I like
about your point--
and I think it's
really important,
and it hadn't quite
struck me until now--
is that so many of the ways
in which women have adapted
to that and created
in their own identity
certain personality
characteristics or habits
are an adaption to the way men--
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
>>YIAMOUYIANNIS: --have
accepted certain things
and forced women into a
compensatory situation.
Then they begin to
become kept competitive.
And before you know it, we
talk about battle of the sexes.
Because they've been
forced be competitive
with each other, and, to a
certain degree, with men.
Men have been forced to be
competitive with each other.
And then they use Darwin
to say all this is natural.
It's not.
It's all a product of
this industrial mentality
that we're beginning
to break out of now.
Thank heavens.
But we don't really
have very good ways
of working through those habits.
That's part of the reason
why I wrote this book.
I want to help
provide some tools
to look past these habits.
>>REGINA: In fact,
you go so far as
to say that the Industrial
Age were the real Dark Ages.
>>YIAMOUYIANNIS: They were.
I call them the second Dark
Ages, because of the way
they dehumanized men,
women, and children.
I mean, child labor
was insanely available
all across the country.
And the first laws were not
passed until the early 1900s.
It was ridiculous.
>>REGINA: So we're just now
emerging from the modern Dark
Ages-- the Industrial Age to the
Information Age to the whatever
age--
hopefully Co-Creative Age
if these kinds of theories
start making it into
the mass psyche.
So for the time being, I
want to go into the book
itself and talk about one
of the chapters you have
which has typology in it.
And the people that have
read the book always
love that particular chapter,
because, if you're a woman,
you can see the men
in your life there--
your father, your brother,
your son, your friend, cousin.
You can see the men fall
into one of these topologies.
And it's not that you're
trying to diminish or put
people in a box per se.
It's just to show the
levels of the way men
are trying to contend
with breaking out
from the patriarchy.
Right?
>>YIAMOUYIANNIS: And
to express themselves.
>>REGINA: And
express themselves.
>>YIAMOUYIANNIS: And
it all founds itself
on the alternative to the
Industrial Revolution,
what I call divine
genius, or unique genius.
And these different types of
manhood that I talk about in--
I believe it's chapter two--
nine different forms of man,
three different types of men--
really accept this basic
principle of divine genius
into the heart.
And that is, every man,
every woman, every child,
every human being, perhaps
every entity of any sort
has a "nowhere else in
the universe" unique
something they're contributing--
unique energy, unique spirit.
That I'm offering
now because I really
want that to be the
place that you can go to.
In other words, you don't
have to prove yourself.
It's already there.
And these different
forms of manhood
are ways to explore
and express that.
And you've been a number
of these types yourself.
>>YIAMOUYIANNIS: Yes, yes.
>>REGINA: You're still
evolving through all of them.
>>YIAMOUYIANNIS: Yes.
So now, from a negative,
I've got to prove myself,
or I've got to keep people
from seeing my weaknesses,
to a positive,
where you're saying,
listen, I'll do
anything to passionately
express this divine genius
and to find out what it is,
including making
mistakes, trying
different forms of manhood.
>>REGINA: Being a fool.
>>YIAMOUYIANNIS:
Being a bit of a fool.
And you know, at the same time,
maybe you are a big macho man,
and maybe you did step on
somebody's toes, you know?
It doesn't preclude
you from apologizing.
>>REGINA: Right,
and still trying
to express this divine genius.
But here we are.
Let's just kind of
set up the times.
The Industrial Age
is essentially,
at least in the Western
world, winding down now.
Yet it's broken the spirit
of the generations right
through our generation.
It has broken those spirits.
Millennials and
younger are now free,
because those jobs
aren't there anymore.
At least in the Western world,
they're not there anymore.
So now we have to
recreate ourselves
as something new, fresh.
>>YIAMOUYIANNIS: Exactly.
>>REGINA: And so at the
same time this is happening,
we're now seeing the
installation of autocratic
leaders--
all these strong men leaders--
across the world--
South America, Europe,
even America-- a lot
would argue, even in America.
Whether you like Trump
or you don't like Trump,
he's more of an
autocratic type of leader.
So this is happening
everywhere though.
So first of all,
what's up with that?
And then we're going to
go into this kind of man
that you have a particular
label for, so to speak,
or a definition.
>>YIAMOUYIANNIS: Right.
You see it in Brazil,
Italy, Turkey.
You name it.
It's all over the
world, even India--
traditional, sort
of patriarchal men
stepping forward and
saying, wait a minute,
this world has run amok.
Clearly, it has to do with
women and minority groups
and so forth gaining power.
>>REGINA: You need to give
your power back to us.
>>YIAMOUYIANNIS: Exactly.
Basically, it's like, we
need to put our stamp on it.
And that's accentuated by
the desperation created
and the anxiety and the kind
of dispersed sort of sense
of identity created
by all these changes.
>>REGINA: It's true.
Because across the
world, the one thing
that's stepping up into creating
kind of fundamentalism of sorts
is fear of others
that are emerging.
This world, this
economic structure,
the power structure
of the Western world
has been run basically by white
men for a really long time.
Now, that's in everyone's genes.
You just expect, yeah,
a rich, white guy's
going to run the show.
That's changed.
It's not white guys anymore.
It's all different
colors of guys and women,
who are now totally competent
and now have staged with them.
And this scares a lot
of people, because they
don't know what
that world's going
to look like where they're not
entitled and preferred anymore.
>>YIAMOUYIANNIS: Right.
And you see it in a lot of
these so-called strongmen.
I like to call them weak
men, because they are.
You see a facade of
bluster, of narcissism.
And then you look behind that
to their actual capabilities,
and it only proves
what I had said earlier
in our interview, which
is, the more and more
you follow that more patriarchal
line, the more and more you
build up an external
facade that's
more and more distant from
your internal capability.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>YIAMOUYIANNIS: And
so then you really
have to start blasting
people and using your power
and position when
people call you out.
>>REGINA: Well, like
the Fortune 500 CEOs
that were afraid of being
found out to be frauds.
>>YIAMOUYIANNIS: Exactly.
Exactly.
So see what damage
that causes to a man.
It will arrest his
development and his growth.
Because he is struggling
to compensate.
And he is struggling to project
an image at odds with reality.
Why not begin to get into
the reality, especially
the spiritual reality, of
a man, make that vibrant,
and turn that all around?
And let's want to be
a fool, experiment,
to engage with women,
to engage with children,
to engage with
other ethnicities,
to see what I'm about, what
this divine genius can do,
how it can interact with others.
That sense of
curiosity and passion
then overtake this notion of
image making and oppression.
>>REGINA: Well, so let's
go ahead and label it.
So we were talking about
the toxic animal man.
Now, one thing about the
toxic animal man-- and we
have lots of examples.
They're in the news everyday--
which are these guys that you
just described, basically.
>>YIAMOUYIANNIS: Like
Harvey Weinstein.
>>REGINA: Yeah,
And what you did-- there's
a complementary chapter
in the book for
movie buffs where
you use characters
that are exemplified
in these roles on
the big screen.
And so the movie "Wall
Street," for anyone who
has seen that, and
Michael Douglas, right?
>>YIAMOUYIANNIS: Right.
Mr. "Greed Is Good."
>>REGINA: Greed is good!
>>YIAMOUYIANNIS: If you can
find a crooked way to get it,
it doesn't matter.
It's all about winning,
no matter how you win.
>>REGINA: And even worse,
"The Wolf of Wall Street,"
which I could barely
watch, more recently,
that's that on acid
or cocaine, gone
totally out of control,
where now you just use
and exploit everybody.
It doesn't even have to be real.
It's not like a
hard-fought battle.
It's just rigged.
And everything is a false game.
And you use women.
You use everybody.
>>YIAMOUYIANNIS: Exactly.
>>REGINA: So let's
talk about it.
And women are often really
attracted to these guys, right?
They have the animal magnetism.
>>YIAMOUYIANNIS:
Well, first of all,
when I talk about the animal
man, I do, in my book,
talk about the regressed form.
That's a toxic man.
>>REGINA: That's a toxic man.
>>YIAMOUYIANNIS: The
transitional form,
which is the striving man,
the one who's a real gamesman,
and the responsible man,
which is like the family man.
>>REGINA: And we're
going to go through that.
So what is it women see in
this toxic form, which is just
"take the world
the way you want it
and everyone is your servant?"
And a lot of times,
it can have a lot
of narcissism attached to it.
>>YIAMOUYIANNIS:
I think it is just
pure desire and force of will.
That's attractive.
You know, when
you see that, when
you participate in that pure
desire and force of will,
it seems to command
your attention
and make things clear for you.
That person is going to
make all the decision.
>>REGINA: Because they
feel safe and solid.
>>YIAMOUYIANNIS: Yeah.
That person is going to
be exciting, alluring,
even if they're being
inappropriate sometimes.
>>REGINA: We're seeing it.
We're seeing it
play out everyday.
>>YIAMOUYIANNIS: Because
there is a desire there.
There is a force there.
And that's still respected.
And there's something
alluring about it.
And we don't oftentimes take
the time to reflect about that.
But then, oftentimes, we
see the alternative, which
is sort of the wet noodle guy.
And we're like, he's not
doing anything for me.
>>REGINA: He can
be my girlfriend.
>>YIAMOUYIANNIS: Exactly.
>>REGINA: And we're
going to get to him.
So we kind of got the idea
of, there is an allure.
There is an attractiveness.
There is a kind of animal
magnetism toward these guys
that know what they want
and they just go and get it.
And oftentimes, they'll be in
positions of power, leadership,
command, and so forth,
and can work their way
into the leadership
of a country just
through that force of will.
And so we know the
downsides of it.
>>YIAMOUYIANNIS: We do.
>>REGINA: We can see how
people are just used,
and they're just
objects in their world.
So we probably all know
of people like that,
or personally know
people like that.
And some women fall
for them and get
their hearts crushed, you know,
as one experiment in life.
Others just like-- ugh--
try to avoid these guys.
But then the next level is,
after some consciousness
has started seeping
in, you still
have the animal magnetism,
capability, desire to win.
You call it the striving man.
>>YIAMOUYIANNIS: Right.
This is a guy going
beyond conquest
to thinking life is a race.
Life was a conquest.
Now, life is a race.
So it's a little
bit of an evolution.
But still, people are
still seen not maybe
in terms of just plain
objects to be conquered
or to be disposed
of, but now seen
as almost sounding
boards, or something
to contend with in order to
get that feeling of thrill,
the thrill of victory.
>>REGINA: A win's still a win.
>>YIAMOUYIANNIS: Yeah, a win.
>>REGINA: So it's still oriented
toward winning, more or less.
>>YIAMOUYIANNIS: It is.
It is.
And you see those
all the time-- people
that are climbing the ladder
and climbing the ladder.
But you also see the
downside of that too.
Especially as this kind of man--
or even women sometimes can
exhibit this--
get on later in life,
they're like, well,
what's this all for?
I've been winning for
the sake of winning,
and it's not providing
a spiritual contentment.
>>REGINA: There's
no heart to it.
>>YIAMOUYIANNIS: There's
no real heart to it.
And so that starts
to fall apart.
And then some of those people
do become more responsible.
They start directing that
competitive or conquest energy
toward supporting other people.
You know, they still
want to be respected,
and still want to be
put a bit on a pedestal.
>>REGINA: Still
want to be above.
>>YIAMOUYIANNIS: Yeah.
And that's what I call
the responsible man.
But he's willing to
actually fund that play,
be responsible, be providing,
have some generosity
and so forth.
>>REGINA: And be protected.
My dad would be a
responsible man.
His generation were the nice
men that went to church.
They joined their conservative
political parties.
And they paid their
taxes and fought
for what was right
in their world,
took care of their families.
My dad is a really good man.
He's a very moral man.
But he might not remember
his grandkids' names.
It's not like he
was too interactive
with the little
people in the family,
even though he was
a really good man.
He's still alive.
He's still a really good man.
But he, like what we were
talking about earlier,
and I think a lot of
people of his generation,
as an older white man,
is really struggling.
And he's open-minded.
We even talk about ETs.
But he's really struggling
with that slippage
of power right, where
he and his Rotarians
are just used to
running the show.
And they're not
And now it makes him nervous.
And he makes making
not-so-rational decisions,
because their control
base is slipping away.
And women and people
of color are entering,
and he doesn't know
what to make of it.
It has him frightened.
>>YIAMOUYIANNIS: Right.
Yeah.
If not frightened, at
least disoriented--
>>REGINA: And disoriented.
>>YIAMOUYIANNIS: --or feeling
that the world is wrong.
>>REGINA: Something's
wrong in the world.
>>YIAMOUYIANNIS: Right.
>>REGINA: And so that is the
animal man in its most evolved
form, really, which
is a responsible,
good man who's still expecting
that the world is going to be
running the platform
they're accustomed to--
>>YIAMOUYIANNIS: Exactly.
>>REGINA: --which has
patriarchy at the core of it.
>>YIAMOUYIANNIS: It does.
And that's the downside
to the animal man,
a lack of reflective
capacity to understand
where that power comes from
and what kind of demands
it makes on other people.
[LAUGHS]
>>REGINA: OK, so now we're
going to start moving on to men
who are starting to wake up.
And in your generation,
we know a lot
of people that would fall into
the category of the social man,
which is like, their fathers
have humiliated their mothers.
They're really tired of the
age-old patriarchal story.
They don't want to be oppressive
to their wives and families.
And so let's enter
into the social man.
>>YIAMOUYIANNIS: Right.
And the first sort of regressed
form of the social man, I
called it the retreating man.
And the retreating man
has seen the damage
that the unapologetic
exertion of power--
and oftentimes false--
and taking credit
for women's work and
other people's work,
they don't want to
be part of that.
They don't see that
it's with integrity.
They don't like it.
They don't like
the demands of it.
They don't have
the heart for it.
So they are saying, I am
rejecting that form of manhood.
And some of the men
end up rejecting
any form of reasonable
expectation of a man--
responsibility.
And oftentimes, they could
reject the responsibility
of the responsible man as well.
>>REGINA: Because
their dads maybe
were too demanding of everyone.
>>YIAMOUYIANNIS: Right, right.
And they're like, to
heck with all of it.
>>REGINA: Well, that's
part of the crisis of guys
in their 40's and 50's now
playing video games all day,
right?
Where's my place?
I've been replaced
on the assembly line.
A woman has my job or whatever.
And they're just
saying, screw it.
>>YIAMOUYIANNIS: Right.
And that's evidence of
either as a response
to the problems
of the animal man
or sometimes as a
retreat, because they're
lacking opportunities
that used to be there.
And it's like, well,
what am I here for?
I might as well just have a
good time, do video games,
have my woman work for me--
work and raise the kids
and do the housework,
which is what a lot of
women are experiencing now.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
And that again is the
type of social man
that's just retreating from
responsibility in general right
now.
>>YIAMOUYIANNIS: Exactly.
And you can kind of see a
little bit of why that is.
I mean, there are a lot of
costs and a lot of demands
that are being placed on men.
And so you can see the
desire to take a break.
But to make that a
lifestyle and to make
that sort of your way
of working through life,
if that's really
sad, that's tragic.
>>REGINA: There's no
expression of genius.
>>YIAMOUYIANNIS: That divine
genius, which is so important,
is not being expressed
at all in that situation.
>>REGINA: Right.
It's now just looking
for comfort and escape.
>>YIAMOUYIANNIS: Right.
>>REGINA: OK, so then
we go on to the one
you call the confused man.
>>YIAMOUYIANNIS: Right.
The confused man is not
willing to stay in that place
where the retreating man is.
He wants to advance, but doesn't
know where to advance to.
So oftentimes, a
confused man, you'll
see him have a
whole slew of doubt.
That one doesn't work,
that one doesn't work,
I'm not sure about this.
>>REGINA: Trying a lot
of things on for size,
trying to find himself
in this world now.
>>YIAMOUYIANNIS: And it's almost
a cliche about men or boys
trying to find themselves.
And that's the confused man.
Because the old ways
don't work anymore.
And they don't work anyway.
Because a lot of the industrial
era and a lot of patriarchy
is beginning to fall apart.
And the new ways haven't
quite been formed.
So here I am.
I'm confused.
I know it can't be the old way.
The new way hasn't been formed.
So I'm struggling to
find my relationship
with my own identity as
a man-- my masculinity.
And I'm playing
playing the field.
Oftentimes, these men will
have short-term relationships.
They'll go from one
woman to another woman.
They don't know who they are
with relation to a woman,
or if they're gay,
with another man.
And they're just
basically experimenting.
And they just don't really know.
>>REGINA: So then
we move on from that
to the next kind of
level of awakening,
which you call the equal man.
And after we talk
about the equal man,
I want to start working
into the conversation--
we're having so much fun.
Time is flying.
I've got to get so much
in before we finish
the discussion-- the whole thing
about the sexual revolution
and how that played into
the development of men.
And so let's go with
the equal man, which
is the most thoughtful and
reflective evolved form now
of the social man.
>>YIAMOUYIANNIS:
Of the social man.
Now, like the animal man,
the social man has his thing.
It's togetherness.
It's connection.
It's the ability to belong to
something greater than himself.
>>REGINA: He wants to be part of
a larger community, an effort,
whether it's Peace
Corps or whatnot.
>>YIAMOUYIANNIS: Yeah.
And in my book, I talk
about my friend Dexter,
who's a good example
of the equal man.
He has a responsible job in
an environmental, very green
industry.
He's bought a house.
He lives in Portland.
His wife also works.
>>REGINA: She teaches
kids art, as I recall.
>>YIAMOUYIANNIS: Yes.
And they go to these kind
of progressive schools.
And he's a co-contributor
in housework
and all these sorts of things.
And so there's this notion
of being an equal partner.
>>REGINA: Well, now,
most women would say,
you don't have to
go any further.
I'd be totally happy with that.
>>YIAMOUYIANNIS: [LAUGHS]
>>REGINA: We do not have
to expand beyond that.
I'm cool.
>>YIAMOUYIANNIS: Yes.
Yeah.
>>REGINA: And it is.
It's a wonderful
place to have landed.
And a lot of men
that we know now
are in this category
that is really
quite a bit more
conscious than anything
that's happened before, at
least in modern history,
the last 10,000 years or so.
>>YIAMOUYIANNIS: That's true.
That's true.
I do mention in my book,
there's one problem with that,
for a man in and of himself.
When he gets to middle
age and the kids
are going off to college
and so forth, now what?
And that is where
there's a more,
I guess, affirmative need to
reassert that divine genius
and this passion.
And that's why I have
another category.
>>REGINA: Yes.
And we're going to go into that.
I'm just going to insert this.
So amidst all of this--
we already talked about
the suppression of
the Industrial Age--
we have the sexual revolution.
So now women are just freely
having sex, as well as men.
Men, most likely, would have
anyway, given the opportunity,
but our social morays and
religious standards and such
wouldn't allow women
to just have sex freely
until the 1960s,
basically, at large.
>>YIAMOUYIANNIS: And
birth control came in.
>>REGINA: And birth control
came in on top of it.
So now, women can participate.
And men are starting to
get used to this gig.
This is pretty fun, as
that terrible saying
that came to be--
I just hate it.
Why buy the cow when you
can get the milk for free?
You know, it's just--
[SHUDDERS] --fingernails
on a chalkboard.
But that's actually
what started happening.
And one of my friends,
who lives here
in Boulder, who is
involved in men's groups
as well, Andrea
Villa, he's Italian.
And he was raised
outside of Venice
in a very patriarchal society.
But it's one that is
a little different.
It protects the girls.
So you take advantage
of a girl, you
get beaten up by her
brothers and her cousins.
So they had kind of
built-in birth control
societally that way.
But in the rest of
the world, where
you didn't have the dominance
of Catholicism, for example,
we have open, free sex.
Men started taking on a
less responsible role.
And at the same time, women
are now entering the workforce.
And so it's very confusing.
That was a very confusing
thing for women.
>>YIAMOUYIANNIS: It was.
>>REGINA: Because that's not
naturally how they were wired,
to just sleep around.
But you were kind of
expected to almost.
Like, what's wrong with you?
Are you uptight?
Hey, man, your old
lady's uptight--
you know, your
23-year-old old lady.
[LAUGHTER]
And so you've got this
kind of corruption
that was built into
the system now where
the men don't have any
responsibility toward the women
to kind of score in
the relationship.
>>YIAMOUYIANNIS: You've got
the worst of both worlds.
>>REGINA: You've got the
worst of both worlds.
>>YIAMOUYIANNIS: You've got
the radical entitlement that
got rid of the
responsibility that
came with the responsible man.
And so you've got the
worst of both worlds.
Now, I think that there
can be an opposite of that.
How could men embrace and even
appreciate woman's initiation
and offering of
their own sexuality
and not take advantage of
it, not simply just use it,
but to actually enjoin
their own masculinity
with that wonderful--
>>REGINA: And help her find
deeper parts of herself
without guilt or shame
or anything around it.
>>YIAMOUYIANNIS: Right,
because that's a big thing.
>>REGINA: It is.
>>YIAMOUYIANNIS: I mean, one
the most protective almost old
school, but new school
as well, is to say,
you can express your
opinion and something you're
passionate about, and you can
express yourself sexually,
emotionally,
spiritually around me,
and that I embrace that, rather
than get intimidated by that
or run the other direction.
And I know a lot of your
audience probably is saying,
I've tried doing that.
[LAUGHS] And they run
the other direction!
Or they are intimidated by that.
And that's where
men need to step up.
>>REGINA: The wild feminine
is quite formidable.
As long as it was tamed and
kept in a can, it was OK.
Look, I noticed this one time
when my mother, my grandmother,
and this other widow woman
were all at a table, and me.
And we were all making a
Greek dish, spanakopita.
I don't know if that's
the right way to say,
but we were making spanakopita.
And the women were talking.
And my mom was saying,
if your father died,
I'd never get married again.
My grandmother said,
oh, god, that was
the best thing, when I got
divorced from your grandfather.
The other woman had
lost her husband.
All of them were
like, yeah, we want
to be free of all those
responsibilities in life.
We want to go on cruises.
We want to do things
with other women.
And women set free are
a very energizing group.
And men are afraid
of that wildness.
>>YIAMOUYIANNIS: They're
afraid of that wildness.
They're afraid of
being left out.
But in some sense, it's
our own expectations
that have been built up, and,
to a certain extent, women too.
I mean women still
retain the notion
that men should be
competent, that men
should be decision makers.
They'd like a guy who
can present himself
well, can provide, protect.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
Look at the movies.
We haven't gotten away
from it, even if the woman
is the kick-butt
hero of the movie,
oftentimes, she'll have a guy
there who always had her back,
even now.
And you still have
the romance themes,
where women are falling
in love with the prince.
And women still cry over
that, and secretly wouldn't
tell each other that
there's a desire there
to feel like there's someone
looking out for your interest
in life and caring for you.
>>YIAMOUYIANNIS: Sure.
And there's nothing
wrong with that,
especially in this transition.
And what I say in here is
that we never really lose
the old things,
just like we still
have the reptilian brain,
the mammalian brain,
and the human brain, I
still have animal man in me.
And it's a good thing, too,
to have force and desire.
I have social man in me.
It's a good thing for
me to be able to connect
and be responsible and
to be equal with others--
>>REGINA: And collaborate.
>>YIAMOUYIANNIS: --and
collaborate with others.
But then there's
this next level.
>>REGINA: And that's where
we get into the spiritually
confident man, basically.
>>YIAMOUYIANNIS: Right.
The co-creative man
says, OK, I've got this.
[LAUGHS] And this is where
we're heading now, historically.
Because now, women
are stepping forward.
Men are stepping forward.
We've got some of the
habits from the past
that we're discussing.
Men are a little
intimidated and running away
from that feminine energy.
Why not step into
it and lean into it
as a man, instead
of saying, OK, I'm
going to be a kind of
honorary woman myself,
get rid of my
masculinity, or I'm
going to assert myself over it?
>>REGINA: Yeah.
Because oftentimes, then
the polarity isn't there.
And oftentimes, that's
where the sexual attraction
between the two
start dropping away.
Because these men become women's
best friends and girlfriends.
>>YIAMOUYIANNIS: Exactly.
>>REGINA: And then
they're upset,
because they might
actually really want
to have a relationship
with that woman.
>>YIAMOUYIANNIS: Exactly.
And this is something that's
emerging now that I'm seeing--
to intensify my uniqueness
and my distinctness,
including as a man, but
not over and against you,
but in a co-creative
relationship with you.
We always think, or
have been taught,
that if I make myself
more polar to you,
then it's going to increase
animosity and conflict.
These energies are
building up on both sides.
But that's only if you're
going against each other.
How about if you're actually
building up all this energy,
and it's arking between
you, and it's really
enlivening the other person,
and bringing them out, saying,
I want what you have to offer?
And the same thing-- the
other person is saying to me,
I want what you have to offer.
And again, it can be a very
kind of adventurous thing.
Because there can be a
lot of misunderstanding
in that, because there's a lot
of energy involved in that.
There's going to be
times when you're crying,
times when you're angry.
But if there's an underlying
commitment at the heart
and spirit, it's
going to persist.
And you're going to get to
that much smoother place,
a place where that language and
that energy continue to exist.
>>REGINA: It's just
an unexplored place.
And people don't have words
or language for it just yet.
Because they're not
used to showing up that
authentically with each other.
And it's scary.
>>YIAMOUYIANNIS:
Of course it is.
>>REGINA: And so
that's really why
you wrote the book, is to
say, here's where we've been.
Here's what we're
passing through.
I personally have been all these
things at one time or another.
Most of you have been
all these things.
And we can kind of see
where we are right now.
But what is the opportunity?
But we all have to get really
honest with each other,
and, as you say, to want
the best for each other--
>>YIAMOUYIANNIS: Exactly.
>>REGINA: --instead of trying
to own or dominate each other.
>>YIAMOUYIANNIS:
Right, or run away.
>>REGINA: Or run away.
Yeah, true.
>>YIAMOUYIANNIS: I mean, you see
some on the spiritual circles.
We're going to just
transcend the situation--
[LAUGHS] --and get out of it.
And that's the whole thing.
And I say, go ahead,
take the rest.
Go as far out as you want
to the metaphysical realm.
But bring it back in.
And then bring it back
into the relationship.
So don't just take off.
But gather.
>>REGINA: Well,
and you might even
say another word there is the
spiritually responsible man,
too.
Because it's
spiritually confident.
But it does bring
back to men a new kind
of sense of responsibility,
not with the weight
of the world on one's shoulders,
but with an absolute commitment
to bringing the true inner value
and genius of oneself forward,
and, like you say, offering it,
even if it's a little scary.
And it is.
Because some men
have been programmed.
Like, oh, jeez, I'm a
third generation attorney.
My family expect it of me.
I hate the law.
I have a stomachache
after every trial.
I just hate it.
I've always loved carving.
I want to do this woodwork.
And this is where the rubber
hits the road and people--
men and women-- both
really struggle.
>>YIAMOUYIANNIS: It is true.
>>REGINA: They say, I can't
live like that anymore,
and I have this
genius in me that
wants to create these
beautiful works of art.
But how do I feed my family?
>>YIAMOUYIANNIS: Exactly.
And then you've imagined
this in a lot of the talks
that you've done on
your own website.
You don't have to
quit your day job.
But you don't have to then
simply be restricted to it too.
You can go ahead
and, alongside that,
begin to develop these
more creative aspects.
And I said "pioneering"
in the title.
I said "pioneering
a new frontier."
This is not easy work.
>>REGINA: Yes, it's not.
>>YIAMOUYIANNIS: Because you are
making it up as you go along.
Because you're making
honest mistakes.
Because you are
having your day job,
and you're dedicated to
family like a good animal man
and and social man.
>>REGINA: And co-creative man.
>>YIAMOUYIANNIS:
And you're going
beyond that as a
co-creative man to say, OK,
but I have this thing I
really want to develop
and I'm passionate about,
whether it's carving,
whether it's acting, whether
it's whatever it happens to be.
You're going to go ahead and
do that and share that as well.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
And OK, so this brings up--
what's his name-- Matthew
Crawford, I think.
Matthew Crawford?
Michael Crawford?
Anyway, "Shop Class
as Soulcraft,"
that book that came out
about five or six years ago,
that was really
important, because it
was talking about men needing to
have a sense of something that
has been accomplished
in their life.
And in his case, what I
loved about the story is,
he was a heavyweight, mentally,
and philosophically, he
was part of a think
tank, making good money.
And he just felt
like, oh, my god.
I'm dizzy.
We go round and round.
Nothing ever comes out of this.
You can't see any effect
at the end of the day.
And he quit his day job,
loved repairing motorcycles
and loved motorcycles, and
opened a motorcycle repair shop
in his little town.
And now, he's a part of the
backbone of the community.
The guys bring his bikes in.
He fixes them.
They work out things together.
And at the end of each day,
he feels like he's actually
done something.
And with the masculine
spirit, this need
to have to produce
something to see
the effects and fruit of
what one has done in life
is important.
>>YIAMOUYIANNIS: It is.
And it's heroic too.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>YIAMOUYIANNIS: You do not
have to become a billionaire
or a titan of industry.
You can do exactly what
that person has done.
You can be a good father.
You can be a good coach.
You can be a good mentor.
You can go to Big Brothers
and Big Sisters and mentor
a child that's not
even in your family.
These are all extraordinarily
heroic things.
And they really help to
develop that masculinity.
And they help you--
oftentimes with the help of the
child, or the help of a woman,
or the help of a
person you happen
to meet in this new career--
begin to develop
your divine genius.
It's a very experimental
and curious thing.
And that's one of the
most undervalued aspects
of masculinity,
and so necessary,
is curiosity, the ability
to experiment instead
of pretending you already
know, pretending you're already
an expert, always trying to make
it look like what's going on
and everyone should follow.
>>REGINA: Don't ask
for directions, yeah.
>>YIAMOUYIANNIS: Right, exactly.
Don't ask for directions.
Whatever it happens to be.
This is, in many ways,
the opposite of that.
But it's actually much more
affirming to masculinity.
Because now, where it really
authentically comes from
is from that divine genius.
It can now be touched.
It's very much in the
heart and the hands,
doing something real
with real people,
and not just
something in your head
or not just from video games.
>>REGINA: With a
real accomplishment
at the end of it.
>>YIAMOUYIANNIS: With a real
accomplishment at the end.
>>REGINA: An objective.
Something you've objectively
accomplished at the end.
Now we only have a
few minutes left.
Time has flown.
Your degree is in the
philosophy of education.
You're a PhD.
And so education is
something you believe in
and you've educated educators.
But the system is failing us.
>>YIAMOUYIANNIS: It is.
It is.
>>REGINA: Everyone
shouldn't just
be shoved off down the
chute to a four-year college
necessarily.
Because it's not aligning
with that divine passion.
So we have a big discussion
as societies around,
what should education serve now?
Who makes that decision?
Who really should put
themselves in that environment
and in that kind of debt if
they have to, versus, who
really doesn't need to do that?
Who can take off and go into
a mentorship or apprenticeship
program and whatnot?
>>YIAMOUYIANNIS: Yeah.
That's part of what I do with
my clients on my website.
>>REGINA: Yeah, you do a great
job with counseling these kids,
especially.
>>YIAMOUYIANNIS: Yes.
With college counseling,
professional counseling,
I'm helping them custom design,
from their divine genius
and their capacities, a line.
Sometimes it involves college or
an apprenticeship, internships,
research assistant-ships, going
out in the world and traveling.
But it helps them
to understand fully
what it is that they really
bring into to the world.
And it's much more appropriate
for today's world, both men
and women.
>>REGINA: Yeah,
because those old jobs
aren't waiting for you anyway.
>>YIAMOUYIANNIS: It isn't.
>>REGINA: You might
as well be creative.
>>YIAMOUYIANNIS: And instead of
being intimidated by the fact
that you're a woman, or a man,
or black, or white, or gay,
or straight, or whether
it happens to be,
you see these as facets
that are actually
accentuating and
spicing your ability
to come forward into the world.
Instead of hiding
these things, now they
become an indispensable part
of developing your moving out
into the world from this
new spiritual aspect,
through all these
different prisms,
through these different spices.
So that's what I,
with my clients,
am really helping
them to develop,
is to accept those
things as strengths
rather than weaknesses.
The difference and
distinctness and clarity
is a way to power that
unique way forward.
And most typical
education hasn't,
because it was built on
the industrial era, which
is about stamping human beings
out in particular competencies.
It wasn't about
feeding your spirit
or allowing you to
create with your spirit
and connect with others
and their spirit.
So I'm glad you mentioned that.
That's great for
another conversation,
like the future of education.
Because we're going to have to
make a big transition there.
The old jobs are
not there anymore.
The really good
ones and the ones
you're really qualified
for are the ones
that are based in that divine
genius and your passion
around that.
>>REGINA: So you mean there's
never been a better time
to be lost and found.
>>YIAMOUYIANNIS: Exactly.
>>REGINA: Because
now there's a chance.
>>YIAMOUYIANNIS:
It's not a bad idea
to be a lost boy
or a man right now.
Because now you don't
have the self-certainty
that allowed you to go into
the dehumanizing realm.
Now you have the
uncertainty that
allows you to go
into a much more
human and spiritual and
compassionate realm.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
And I can say that because
I know you quite well.
But your divine genius is
in helping people identify
that divine genius in them.
And that's your passion.
And so it's really beautiful
for me, watching you
and how people start lighting
up and understanding,
oh, my god, I had no idea
that that desire was still
so strong in me.
And I've got to find
a way to express it.
And we all need to find a way
to express this in ourselves.
Our lives feel like
dead wood if we're not
expressing, in some
way or another,
that thing in ourselves.
And we only have a minute left.
And I want to make
one final statement.
It's beginning to change
in the Western world.
But the reality is,
until that moment
arrives when a woman
gives birth to a child
and a man sees his baby's
face for the first time,
there is a subtle
thing that happens,
because it's ingrained
in us, genetically
from the past, where there's
that extra excitement at seeing
a little boy born
into the world that
happens with a lot of
women subconsciously.
In other countries, it's
like, yes, thank god.
We're going to pass the name on.
Someone to work the fields.
But we have to begin
seeing our children, boys
and girls, as all this
same divine little
spark of genius without
preferring one over the other,
letting boys get away with
the "boys will be boys,"
even though they're
developmentally
a little different.
We can't use that
old trope anymore,
while the girls are having
the responsibility heaped
on them from five
and six years old,
cleaning up after their
brothers and such.
This has to change.
>>YIAMOUYIANNIS: Yes.
>>REGINA: And so if you have
a final comment on that,
we're out of time.
[LAUGHS]
>>YIAMOUYIANNIS: OK.
Well, I just wanted
to say-- and it's
going to help boys just
as much as it helps girls.
It's going to help men just
as much as it helps women.
By not assuming and
using other people,
by being able to work with them,
you learn to develop a joy.
And you create a
real equality that
now has room for your real
masculinity and not some role.
And it's not going to be
dependent upon someone else
serving you in a certain way.
That's the kind of world
I want to see happen.
>>REGINA: Well, you're
doing some amazing things
as a professor right now in
the psychology department,
and creating this whole new
template for understanding
emotions and motivation.
And so that's one way you're
working in the mainstream
with the mainstream population.
>>YIAMOUYIANNIS: Right.
That's my day job.
>>REGINA: That's your day job.
And it's amazing what you did.
So Zeus, thank you
for joining me here--
>>YIAMOUYIANNIS: Thank
you for having me.
>>REGINA: --formally
and publicly.
We have these conversations
at home normally.
[LAUGHS]
>>YIAMOUYIANNIS: Yes.
>>REGINA: Again, the
title of the book
is "The Spiritually
Confident Man,"
which you can find
through Amazon
and other major booksellers.
Or you can go to AskDrZeus.com
to connect with Zeus
personally.
Until next time, thank
you for joining us here
on "Open Minds."
[MUSIC PLAYING]